Hello again, you fantabulous got to people in this video, we're going to move each player now.
We've looked at moving players before, right with you.
Some basic if key is pressed or if Key is just pressed to move a single character around.
But we're making a local multi play a game.
We want one script that can handle either player.
So we could do some slightly sneaky things.
Let's jump right into it.
I'm in put all our scripts on the default on the template plan, on the default by the template plan.
So my open player one, for example, like the template.
This is where my script is going.
So I'm going to put the script in here and I'm going to call it Player Dot G.D. I don't wanna call it
player template DOGTV created there.
And by doing that and saving it, it's now in player one and in player two, they both have that script.
So the the goal is to make a single script that will automatically figure out which category moving.
To do that, let's set up some inputs.
So when in a project settings and I'm going to get input map and I'm gonna put in some movements.
OK.
I want to move in four direction.
So let's say up and I want to say this is up for player one.
And now let's make an up for player to.
And I would do this the other three directions.
Right.
She tied it in the right one.
Right to that one.
Down to.
There is a reason, by the way, why I'm using one and two and this will become clear later in this
video as part of my sneakiness sometime.
Up, down, up, right, down.
Let's go.
Left one.
Left two.
OK.
Now we actually have to bind these keys.
So I stopped by some keys and I got up one and that's got me on my WSC d because those are my keys.
W.
Right.
One is a key of the down, one making sure that the right character s and left one is a key of A and
then can go through and do the Cossa arrows for plan to set up a key up arrow.
Paretsky of Rights Oura.
Down is a key down arrow.
And you'll never guess what left is.
That's right.
Left out.
Now, I also want to make this work for a controller.
There's going to be two slightly different movements.
Thing this time.
So on up one, I'm going to click on what a joy axis.
And it's going to be device zero.
Left, stick left.
What does that.
I don't know.
I left stick up.
That's what I want.
OK.
So up is Divisadero left stick up and on player to do the same thing for device one.
OK, so if we have two controllers plugged in the machine, I only own one controller.
But if I owned two, I could have both players using a controller.
And that's left stick up fight.
We're only using directional controls.
We don't have a fire button for any reason.
So nice and easy.
I'm going to quickly go through these.
So.
Right.
It's a joint joint access.
Come back.
Troy, access to ICE Zero.
And I want to go right.
Awesome.
And I do the same thing here.
Device one.
Right now, before we go any further, take a look what this is actually saying, access zero plus OK,
on the up here, we have access one negative.
That's interesting.
That means that there's got to be some way we can return the value to Gotto as a positive or negative
on a single axis.
And that's what we're going to be doing.
And it's gonna make our movement script much cleaner.
So let's go down.
That's down for player one.
I've just changed my dead zone.
Danford player one Jax is zero.
Let's tick down.
You do is a little bit time consuming the first time you do it, but, you know, it's got to be worth
it.
So do doo doo doo.
Yeah.
And left.
Stop.
That's only an axis left.
Stick left.
Perfect.
And joy axis and device one is left.
Stick left.
Okay, so let's just do a quick sanity check.
Player one is always in device zero.
So play a one one play at one plat one.
Right.
Play who's always in device one that I can get.
Everything's fine.
OK, so now let's start making movements, right.
Well, we can be using a kinematic body.
We use compatibly tde to full.
We know you're going to need some sort of motion.
And that's gonna be effective.
Three.
Great.
We also know that we have two players named one and two.
So what to do, not make an export variable?
Could play a idee.
And that's going to equal one.
That's my default.
So when I say that I'm a player and if you look at play one, there's no script here.
OK.
So because I imposed these before the descript that it exists of the delete those two and re-import
them another should exist.
Player one TCN has the script and the player idea of one great import player to.
And I would chase this player ready to do so just using a an export variable to change what your player
number is something to move.
Player two over here.
And player one over here again.
Ambro, take them.
Ninety degrees in the right direction.
Doo doo doo doo doo.
Great.
And play to you can rotate this way.
I should I you should look at the screen, see what's roughly 90 degrees.
But I'm looking at a number.
Awesome.
And you are not censored.
Just move.
Play one little bit.
Play one.
Could you just shift was your error.
I see the arrogance this is not probably helpful, I used move.
Here we go.
He's ended.
Yes, I think so.
We'll going to know it, not said it.
So you are better off flat.
Great.
OK.
So I will leave.
There's the NFA now.
Stop playing that.
We now have two players and they are identified by player I.D..
So what I want to do here, make sure I'm in play template just so keep it nice and simple.
I'm going to create a script that can read the play a variable and check which input it wants versus
give us a speed export variable speed equals 10.
You know what?
There should be competition at constant speed equals 10.
I could change that later.
And we will make sure that every frame we're going to be moving so function.
I can do this on the physics process lab.
I wouldn't make a script function, couldn't move.
So let's just make that real quick function move.
And he is well, inputs are going to come in.
OK.
Clever thing, No one, if input dot is action.
Pressed.
OK.
That's the climate that I've done.
These are all strings.
Well, that's OK.
We know something we can do with strings.
Let's start with.
Up.
Up as strength.
Underscore.
The Looney Lips.
Well, we did this.
Modulo player I.D..
Remember that?
Let's take a look.
Just on.
If the action press is this string with this subsection here being the player I.D., in other words,
if whatever this player I.D. is, is being pressed.
So if up my player I.D. is pressed, then move up.
OK.
So that's gonna be up is on the Z axis isn't it.
Motion.
Thoughts, That depends which where the camera is, boatmen say Z4 now.
Let's change it.
Motion dot Z plus equals one.
OK.
So far, so good.
But you know what?
We can be a lot cleverer.
First, I can remove that past line so we don't actually ignore the entire function.
How can we be cleverer?
Well, what if we're using a controller?
Is he right now?
Is action pressed?
Is going to only work for digital values.
Zero or one.
Binary values.
But I won't be able to use analog values.
Now, if I'm using analog values, I want to use a different function.
I don't use is action pressed.
I want to use get action strength.
Let's take a quick look at what that does.
Just take a look I'm here.
Returns a value between zero and one representing the intensity of a given action in a joy pad.
For example, the farther away the axis is now.
Do you remember when I pointed out that our input map over here, we've actually got the negative and
positive.
Right.
And it makes sense if you going down, you're moving in one direction on the axis.
And if you going up, which is I mean, it heads up up is negative and down as positive.
Well, that's interesting.
Can we do that?
Well, let's.
Instead of free this way, go make a variable called X and make a variable called Z.
So let's start with our Zegas.
I think that's what we want.
And here I want input dot get action strength.
And then I went up modulo by a player I.D..
OK, minus, here's the fun bit.
Ready?
Down.
OK, so he's got this a little bit to read it.
But let's take a look what's happening here.
I have to find a vertical Z as being up minus down.
Now, if I press both keys up and down, the same time is going to return zero, which means we're not
moving.
So instead of doing if I press up but not down and if I press down but not up.
Right.
I could put all of that in a single line of code.
Let's do the same thing on X Saphir one do left and right.
Left.
Right now, we might need to tweak this little bit.
But right now, we have these two variables.
So I'm going to use them.
Well, when I say motion equals was a vector three.
And I want X zero, Z, Y, X, or is it because we're not moving on the wax.
We're never moving up?
Right.
So every frame will take the values of X and Z.
And now we can do move and slide.
Motion.
Times speed.
Now, remember, move and slide can take extra variables, remember, when we're using happy days,
we're moving slide.
And we had to define what UPF was.
Well, we got to do the same thing here.
And because we're 3D, we really need to do that.
So I'm gonna write a vector three of zero one zero.
That's just defining what OP is.
So up is the normal that is pushing away from the floor.
So we now know which way the floor is.
Putting it like that is a little bit in that magic number, so I'm actually gonna make a new constant.
I find it Lexar.
One thing we do need to do is real emotion dot normalized because otherwise we gonna be faster on the
diagonal.
OK, let's see if that works well split.
Let's see, I can go left, right, forward, backwards.
OK.
So what I've done is all of these are reversed.
That's OK.
I can fix that.
In fact, I kind of saw that coming because if you look right, it's actually positive.
On the left stick.
And left is negative.
Which means if I take the negative and then subtract the positives, it's all going backwards.
That's fine.
I can fix that real quick.
Right.
Left.
Down.
Now.
If I press play him now, I'm meeting diversity.
You do now meet is fine and keep dude.
No, he's fine.
We want to play a game.
And if I take my controller, I can.
Move the controller.
I'm pretty happy with that.
Now, currently is not facing directionals to go.
But look at that.
We have now made a movement script.
That one works for both players because of the way we've named our moving movement conventions.
Because the way we've named a key press conventions and use our export variable and.
The entire thing is 18 lines of code.
It's actually last night because one, two, three, four, five, six of those aren't even codes.
So 12 lines of code.
That is pretty fun.
I'm quite happy with that.
And that feel like a good place to finish the video.
So excellent luck.
And I'll see you in the next one.